Plottie: A little plotting/cutting program for Silhouette Plotters
==================================================================

This repository contains a command-line tool for plotting and cutting outlines
from [SVG vector graphics](https://developer.mozilla.org/kab/docs/Web/SVG)
using the [Silhouette series of desktop
plotters/cutters](https://www.silhouetteamerica.com/).

A note to eager users...
------------------------

If you've found this repository and are looking for a nice way to use your
Silhouette plotter, I encourage you to checkout the more friendly
[Robocut](https://github.com/nosliwneb/robocut) and
[Inkscape-Silhouette](https://github.com/fablabnbg/inkscape-silhouette))
packages.

Though plottie aims to be at least as robust and capable as these two packages,
it is also a pet project to play with 'interesting' ways of driving the plotter
and so advanced functionality and the command-line interface may get in the way
of everyday use...


Example usage
-------------

If you provide nothing more than an SVG filename as an argument, plottie will
attempt to figure out what needs to be done automatically:

    $ plottie drawing.svg

For a simple SVG, Plottie will immediately start plotting all of the outlined
shapes in the SVG.

For SVGs generated by Inkscape, Plottie will use the layer names to make a more
educated guess about what is required. For example, a layer called 'Regmarks'
is found, Plottie will attempt to make the plotter search for the registration
marks drawn in that layer. If a layer called 'Plot' or 'Cut' is found, Plottie
will plot or cut only the outlines from that layer, even if it is hidden.

Plottie can also be controlled more explicitly, for example:

    $ plottie drawing.svg --use-regmarks --cut --colour=FF0000 --speed 100% --force 20%

This command will cut all visible red outlines in an SVG at maximum speed and
at 20% force.

More complex jobs which involve tool changes can also be performed:

    $ plottie drawing.svg \
        --cut --colour=FF0000 --speed 100% --force 20% \
        --plot --layer="Plot Layer 1" --speed 80% --force 80%
        --plot --layer="Plot Layer 2" --speed 80% --force 80%

By default Plottie will pause the job between tool changes but this can be
controlled with the `--pause` or `--no-pause` flag.

Plottie has several options which control the order that lines are plotted.

    * `--file-order` will cause lines to be plotted in the same order they are
      presented in the input file.
    * `--fast-order` will try to cut nearby lines one after the other.
    * `--left-to-right` will plot lines in approximately the same order a human
      might while writing left-to-right, top-to-bottom.
    * `--innermost-first` will cause lines inside other shapes to be plotted
      before those which contain them. May be used alongside other options.

The `--fast-order` option is enabled by default when plotting and cutting.
When cutting, `--innermost-first` mode is also automatically enabled.


See also
--------

Plottie uses the [`svgoutline`](https://github.com/mossblaser/svgoutline)
library to extract outlines from SVG files. This library has good support for
SVG features commonly useful when cutting and plotting (e.g. text and dashed
lines).

The [`py_silhouette`](http://github.com/mossblaser/py_silhouette/) library is
used to control the plotter.
